{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A Predictive Analysis of Breast Cancer Risk Factors
\fs26 \

\fs32 David A. Rynties\
Lucas K. Ausbury
\fs26 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Using a risk model dataset of 280,000+ records taken with permission from the Breast Cancer Surveillance Consortium (BCSC), we plan on creating a predictive algorithm which calculates the risk factor of breast cancer development based on variables such as: age, breast density, race, BMI, diagnosed first degree relatives, and many others. For this project, we hope to develop a system which when user data is provided, the application will analyze the data and output the approximate percentage of breast cancer development. If a user finds that they have a high probability of development, they can use that information to take preventative measures / learn what to look for to catch the tumor early. If caught early, the chances of death are quite small in comparison to catching it late. Much more manageable. \
\
Firstly, we intend to calculate which variables provide the most significant information towards risk. This will be done with each individual variable. Those of which show the least significant may be excluded. Once the most significant variables have been calculated, going from most to least, wed like to understand the increase in predictability accuracy based on each additional variable. Obviously age will be a big factor so this may have to be done for each different age group. Maybe we can show the likelihood of developing breast cancer through a graph with time on the x and risk probability on the y.\
\
Deliverables will contain graphs and predictive models based on variables found within this dataset. \
\
We also have a dataset of mammogram images taken from the Mammographic Image Analysis Society. If we have time, we may attempt to add an image processing component using a convoluted neural network or something similar to analyze pixel density / color based on size, position, and composition.\
\
Once completed, it would be great if users could enter their data, get a risk prediction of breast cancer, if that prediction is above a certain percentage, get a mammogram, process that image, if image contains high probability rate of malignancy, send to radiologist for confirmation. If image analysis returns low probability, remove. Must be very low to guarantee misdiagnosis.  }